mind your decisions I'm fresh talker you
have a rectangle with dimensions of two
and one and you have a second rectangle
of the same dimensions now rotate the
second rectangle and place it on top of
the first rectangle in such a way that
they're opposite corners overlap the
question is what is the area of the
overlapping region between the two
rectangles I think Robin for the
suggestion pause the video if you'd like
to give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching to learn how
to solve this problem
I will present one way to solve this
problem
consider the following right triangle
and suppose the other leg has a length
equal to X since the entire side of the
rectangle has a length equal to 2 the
remaining length on this rectangle will
be equal to 2 minus X by symmetry the
other rectangle will have exactly the
same lengths the portion that's not
overlapping will be equal to X and the
portion that is overlapping will have a
length equal to 2 minus X we can then
consider just this right triangle by the
Gogu theorem x squared plus 1 squared is
equal to the quantity 2 minus x squared
we're going to expand the binomial the x
squared terms will then cancel out and
we then have a linear equation we can
routinely solve this equation for x and
we get that X is equal to 3 over 4 let's
substitute that into our diagram we now
want to consider the area of the
overlapping region let's also consider
the area of this right triangle which is
congruent to the other right triangle we
thus have the area of this overlapping
region plus the area of two of these
triangles will be equal to the area of
the original rectangle the rectangle has
an area equal to 2 times 1 which is
equal to 2 2 of these triangles will
have an area equal to 3 over 4
multiplied by 1 which is equal to 3 over
4 we thus can solve for the area of the
overlapping region and it will be equal
to 2 minus 3 over 4 which is equal to 5
over 4 and that's our answer thanks for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube as always
thanks for watching and
for your support
[Music]